Hello everyone and welcome to the regression example lecture for the model evaluation section of the
course now that we've walked through the documentation example.
Let's take a look back at that housing data set.
We originally worked with in the Russian section of the course and applied the train validation split
and parameter grid builder objects that we've been working with.
We're going to jump to a text editor now.
All right.
Here I am.
Adam text editor and the a script that goes along with this lecture is under the model evaluation folder
it's called Train test in grids that Skala.
And basically as I mentioned that we're going to be doing is following through of Parambrata build or
train validation split and running very simple examples so you can get an idea of how to work with real
cxxviii data or whatever data format you're working with with this train validation split and parameter
grid builder.
And we're going try to keep things very simple and not actually setting any options and parameter grid
so we can focus more on the train validation split.
I'm going to explain that in more.
So let's start a new script going to you right click on model evaluation start a new file and call this
the next stop Skala enter.
Now let's begin.
First thing I want to do is actually a couple of imports I need the evaluator the model and then the
parameter grid builder and the train invalidations split.
So I can say something like this import or Apache that spark animal evaluation and then I want the regression
evaluator because I'm running a regression algorithm Linaria session and then I need to import my models.
That just comes again from that Apache that spark M-L regression and then I want to call linear regression.
And then finally I want to say import.
And in this case I want to say or Apache that sparked the M-L and I'm going to grab it from tuning in
I want to grab multiple things like putting curly brackets here.
I want to grab that parameter great builder and I also want to grab that train validation split which
allows us to do that training test and hold up a set.
And then as an option I can also say import or Apache the log for J underscore and then say capital
logger logger type in Oregon as a string and then I set the level to be level dot and in all caps here
and this is just to reduce the amount of output we see as far as logging when you run SPARC.
Now the first thing I want to do is start a simple Sparke session so I'll add one more import as we've
done before in the past or the Apache that spark that sequel spark session and then we say Val Sparke
start a spark session called builder on it and then get or create.
So we have our bases covered.
Next thing we want to do is actually prepare the training and test data in order to do that.
We need to read in the test data so read the data.
We're working on Facey every file.
So I will say that data is equal to spark read and we're working of CCV so I'm going to pass on two
options.
We've done in the past header and then true.
And then I also want to say option in first schema and then true the form I'm working with is CXXVIII.
So we'll type that in C S V.
And then finally I actually want to load that file and I'm using the same file that we used in the regression
section of the course.
That's the USA housing file.
So I will just say this in strings.
Slash regression slash.
And then USA underscore housing that CAC.
And basically what this does is these two dots here tell it to look beyond its own folder so go outside
model the valuation go to regression and then get that U.S. housing that we file.
Now just to make sure everything worked well.
To add one more line here that says Data print schema and it actually works with or without close parentheses.
But let's load that in.
I already have my terminal and actual load it up.
So I will say load and the X-Type Skala enter.
And we should at the end of this see the schema printed out.
Let me expand this.
And there it is.
And we've already seen this data sets we have the average area income average area house age average
number of rooms number of bedrooms area of population price and address.
Remember we're trying to predict the price in a regression model and eventually we won't actually use
that addresses it's just string data.
So coming up next we want to make sure we set up the data frame for machine learning.
And I know I mentioned this constantly but going to do some imports not at the top.
So everything is kind of organized by idea.
But in this case we need to do some imports for vector assembler and vector.
So we'll say or that Apache SPARC Emel feature dot and then call vector assembler and then I will say
import or Apache SPARC M-L and then Lynn alge vector's that I want to rename the label column.
So remember that we have the price column we want to rename as label which means we say yvel set up
our data frame data select and going to select that price column capital P price and I will set it as
it will say label.
And then I want to select the couple of columns here.
Since I'm dealing with the spark shell I can easily just say data that columns enter and reports back
the columns.
This is just a convenience so I can actually grab the ones I want.
In this case you don't to copy and paste those features one of the type of I'm out just reformat them
and then I will paste them here.
And then I want to say dollar sign quotes.
They don't always need the dollar sign here but when you're dealing with Skala sometimes you get errors
depending on your operating system.
You don't have it there.
So a lot of times it's better to include it just to be on the safe side.
All right then let's put in another quote here.
There are dollar sign quote there and this got cut off so we will bring this back down.
And one more all the way to the right.
All right.
So let's make sure that we have that working.
I'm going to save this and run this again.
So I will load Ixtoc Skala make sure my princes are balanced and I didn't miss anything up to expand
this.
All right.
Looks like we have a deal.
Ready to go.
And I can say the F print schema.
In effect spand this I have my label and then all my features.
And as always we need to put all these features into a single column that's an array called features.
Next thing you need to do in order to actually do that step is to create the vector Sembler which means
we'll type all assembler is equal to a new vector assembler object going to set the input columns as
an array.
In the input column just the ones we've been working with here these guys.
So copy and paste that right click copy scroll to the left down here paste it don't need the dollar
signs in this case since we just want strings.
We'll remove those.
And one more over here.
All right.
That's an array.
And we want to also set the output column.
So here we will say that set output call to us lower case features.
That's our assembler.
And the next thing I want to do is actually transform the data frame using assembler which means we'll
type Vau output equal to assembler transform to frame say selects and then say label and then say features
save this and I always like writing stuff especially if you're working on a small dataset like this
one just to make sure everything's balanced out as far as print season we don't have any typos.
If you don't get any errors.
Looks like we're still good here we have her output is just that label and the features vectors.
Everything's working perfectly so far we've said data frame select the creator or assembler transforms
and we have the output which is just the label and the features.
Now we're ready to actually create an array of training and test data.
So now I'm just saying.
Training and test data in order to do that.
I will say yvel color Ray and pasand training and test as to values inside of the Saray is equal to
the output that selects I'm going to select the label column and select the features column and do a
random split off of it.
This is random split and typically you do a 70 30 percent split between training and test set.
It really depends on what your data looks like.
I can't give you a 100 percent correct answer all the time on how you should split between training
and test.
It's really often really common to do a 17:30 but things such as 75 25 80 20 60 40 are also very common.
Obviously the lower your training set the less your model is going to have to go off.
So we'll probably get a larger error at the end.
But you don't want to give it so much training data that testing on a single point is basically useless.
We'll do 70 30 split and you can set a seed if you want.
I just set one you find that way your results are more or less the same as mine.
Next up is the actual linear regression model.
Remember we have these basically three steps.
The model the parameter great build there and then that train validations lit.
Right now we just have that training set and that testing set we have to actually create the model.
I will save L-R is equal to new linear regression.
Close print sees there is our model.
And up next we want to do the parameter grid now for this particular example I'm actually going to leave
the parameter grid empty just to show you that if you want to do the train test and hold out data set
and you're worried that you don't want to pick any parameters you just want to do that three tier testing
instead of just a simple train split like we have here you actually want to have that whole that data.
You need that parameter grid but luckily you can actually leave that parameter grid blank if you want
to you can say Program grid is equal to new Sharam grid builder.
And instead of saying I'm setting options here for parameter griots or adding anything you can just
at the end of this essentially build it we can go down here and then say something like dots build and
that's a functioning parameter grid it's kind of useless in that you're not actually testing any grade
or any parameters you're not adding to this but you do need some sort of parameter grid object for this
next step.
And I'm going to create the next step of the train validation split object train blitz and essentially
this is the hold out train revalidation split I will say.
Val we can say train validation split or train Val split is equal to a new train validation split close
parentheses and then I will say and I have Princie surrounding this so I can write this in multiple
lines but the first thing to do is set the estimator So the estimator remember that's just the actual
model we created.
So there it is estimators set.
We put the dot here so it's a little more clear that these are extra options.
And then the next thing I want to do is actually say Dot set the evaluator number the evaluator we just
imported.
Now I can say new regression evaluator here.
Goes Prince sees and then the next thing I want to do is actually set the estimator program mapping.
And in this case for using an empty parameter grid and later on we'll explore who can add more Gritz
that right now we'll just see Dot set estimated Primm maps and passen that Pareene great.
We just made Graham grid.
And then finally I want to see here dots set the train ratio remember that train races just how much
of this are you going to use for that training and test and how much of it is left for the holdout.
And here a very typical number something like 0.8 percent and now that we have that train of split you
can essentially treat that object as if it were the new model.
We can say well we make sure these Princie are balanced real quick.
Know they are Velle model is equipped to train vowels splits dots fit to the training data
and then same model transform the test data and selects basically the features the label and the prediction
which are them.
Are there more important things you want to know.
So select features
label
and predictions actually prediction and show that off.
All right.
Let me say this and let's run it to make sure we have everything correctly shown.
So will load X thought Skala run this and make sure that we get the outputs we expect.
There's a train of split and here are our results.
Here we have the features the label and the prediction.
These are pretty okay predictions but we want to actually get some sort of measurement.
Let's go ahead and calculate the air from our label column in our prediction column.
All right.
So so far we've been able to actually run a model using train validation split but there's a couple
of things we haven't really explored yet in more detail.
For one thing we actually haven't added any grids for parameters.
So that's something we're going to want to play with.
And another thing is still unclear what are we actually evaluating with what is the metric we are using
for this particular evaluator in our case a regression evaluator in order to fully understand this.
Well let's take a quick look at the documentation.
When you go to the documentation now and here we are at Sparks that Apache the org you're already very
familiar as we've been visiting documentation many times throughout the course.
Click on the latest docs and then come here to API docs and click on Skala and what I want to show you
is under evaluator.
And here you can begin to search for evaluator and we can see here under M-L evaluation.
We have our binary classification evaluator.
So that's classification with two classes.
We have a general evaluator or multiclass classification evaluator.
And then here are regression evaluator.
Click on the regression evaluator and come down here and you'll notice that there's this parameter metric
name and last parameter for the metric name and evaluation.
Now if we expand this we have a couple of options here.
And the default option is the root mean square error which means we currently valuated those models
using root mean squared error.
Well we can set the metric name to be mean square there are squared metric or the mean absolute air
in order to actually compare metrics.
We need to have more parameters.
So to do all this let's go back at a couple grids and then play around with the different metric names
and see if we can fully understand the entire process here.
Let me pull back the Adam text editor.
All right so he came back from the documentation.
Now the first thing we need to do is actually add a couple of grid of parameters we want to add a grid.
And that way we can use this regression evaluator metric to compare models.
In this case we'll come back here to pram great builder we will say at one dot add a grid and let's
say our Reg program Nazi regularisation parameter will put an array here and we're going to put two
very different values.
One of them is going to be more extreme we'll say something like 10000 as a regular ization parameter.
And the second one is going to be much smaller we'll say something like 0.1 that we can really tell
the difference when we compare these two models.
I'm going to save this and run this script again.
Load X Skala enter.
And we should now be able to call the actual validation metrics off of our model object.
Once it's running.
And we shouldn't notice a significant difference between them.
OK here are actual results this label on prediction here Sparke telling us hey I ran two models here
one with a very large regularisation parameter one the much smaller ones are 0.1.
If I click model dot tab I can see here I get the validation metrics as an option.
Let's actually call that validation metrics.
Enter and notice now I have two different values here.
I have 97000 zeros or a five and ninety six thousand nine hundred ninety four.
Still pretty close specially given how different regularisation was for these two.
And that's just the basic overall hint that regularisation doesn't really affect this particular problem
given this data.
But we can still see some sort of difference here between the two.
Regularisation parameters.
Now imagine that I actually wanted to choose a different validation metric.
Remember in this case by default our validation metric is root mean squared error.
Let's try switching it up to our Square and show you how to actually set those parameters in order to
do that.
We will scroll this back down and revisit this object this new regression evaluator.
OK we can set this metric to actually compare these by another metric that's not root mean squared error
by coming back to this new regression evaluator and saying dot sets.
In this case it's metric name and then passing in a string code for the particular metric name we want
to evaluate.
In our case we want the R-squared metric.
So we'll just passen our two.
And again you can reference that documentation.
We were just exploring if you want these actual code names and there's code names for the binary classification
or multiclass classification evaluators as well to actually choose what metric you want to evaluate.
I'm going to save this.
And now let's load this script again and see what happens when we call validation metrics this time
around going to load X that's gonna run this.
And now we're running the same train validations split except we're using a different metric name.
In this case we're using R-squared as our metric.
And now that we have run the model we can say model dots validation metric or metrics enter.
And here we can see the R-squared values.
No these are squared values are almost exactly the same because in this case regularisation doesn't
make a big difference.
If we want to see a more extreme example we can really pump up regularisation here on one of them and
make one of these quite a bit smaller.
We're going to save this and see if we can get any difference in our square.
Basically what this is telling you is that both of these models fit almost exactly the same.
Let's say that.
Run it again.
See if we get any difference.
If not you can explore on a different regularisation or different regression dataset and see if you
get anything different with these metrics.
All right.
Training it it's done training now it's called Model validation metrics enter.
And here we can see that one of these now has a really horrible fit.
This is a horrible R-squared value.
It's point 0 0 0 5 point 1 2 4 et cetera versus a pretty good R-squared fit 92 percent of variance explainer
0.9 to.
OK.
That's basically it for this lecture.
Let me do a quick review of everything we've just done since we were working with a real data set.
Obviously hopefully you don't do such extreme grid's.
But let's start from the beginning.
Review everything we just did.
All right.
For the quick review we set up regression evaluator since we're dealing if a regression problem in whatever
case you're working with.
You want to actually import the correct evaluator such as a classification evaluator a binary classification
or multiclass classification evaluator depending on your dataset in your problem.
Then we actually called in the model in this case we're using regression linear regression and then
we called in two objects from tuning the parameter grid builder.
And that train validation split everything else we've seen before.
Things such as setting the error level starting your Spark's session reading in your data setting up
your data for machine learning where we're that's the label features column set up and you do that using
vector assembler.
Then we split our data into a training set and a test set using random split.
We create our model and we set up our parameter great builder.
We say new program great builder dot add a grid and based off of whatever model you're using you can
set up different parameters and you can always reference documentation for what specific parameters
you can set in your model and you add an array of values.
In this case quite an extreme difference of array and it doesn't just have to be two values.
You can for instance put a comma here and now compare three different models and you can keep adding
more parameters to test out more different models.
Then finally you build that parameter grid.
Then you have your train validation split.
You create a new train validation split object.
Set your estimator.
Set your evaluator.
In this case of calling new regression evaluator and if you want you can set a particular metric name.
If you're not satisfied with the default metric and if you ever want to look up these metric names you
just go to the documentation page we showed earlier.
You set up your estimated parameter grid and set up your train ratio for the train test hold out ratio.
Then you call a model.
In this case it's just train vals split as if it were a normal model fit onto your training set.
Use your model to transform your test set of data and actually select features label and prediction
show and later on you can also do things such as select your validation metrics.
All right if you have any questions feel free to post the Kewney forums.
This is a pretty advanced stuff and it's the absolute latest stuff with SPARC 2.0.
Hope you enjoyed this lecture and I will see you at the next one.
Thanks everyone.